Hello, everyone, in this video, we're going to take a break from the step by step nature of this
course, so we're not going to be working on building out our fictional university website.
Instead, I want to show you how you can import the final finished product that we will have at the
very end of this course.
I want to show you how you can import that into a brand new empty local WordPress installation.
Now, you don't need to do this.
I want to stress right away, if you're enjoying the course so far and you've been able to follow along
and you like the step by step nature of building things with me, by all means, you can skip this video.
You do not need to do this.
However, for many people, maybe there's a chapter at the end of the course you're interested in and
you really only joined this course for one of those later chapters.
And you don't want to have to follow along with the first 20 hours of the course just to get to that
later chapter.
Or maybe you're the type of learner that doesn't like the step by step nature of this course.
And you would rather have the finished product that you can start dissecting and working backwards on
and maybe reverse engineering or just inspecting a certain feature that you're interested in.
Or another reason you might want the finished product site is yes, this course has always offered the
theme folder that you can download as a zip.
However, the theme folder is not going to automatically give you all of the plugins that we need,
and it's not going to automatically configure all of the settings in the database.
Right.
All of our custom fields, their exact field names and settings, all of the different settings for
various plug ins, all of that is stored in the database and it can require a lot of attention to detail
and patients to follow along with this course video by video, making sure you've set all the same settings
as me and following along step by step.
So in this video, when you import the finished product into a new empty local WordPress dev copy,
it's going to give you everything, not only the theme folder, but it's going to give you my copy of
a finished database.
So all of the plug ins, all of the settings will all be perfectly configured.
Now, again, if you're enjoying the step by step nature of this course, you can skip this video.
However, it might be nice for you to have your one work in progress, copy of the site and then create
an entirely new local dev project and import the final site.
So that way you have a working reference that you can compare your copy to big picture.
There are many different reasons why you would want to install or import the final product.
So let me show you how we can do this.
So in the local app, you can go ahead and create a brand new empty copy of WordPress.
That's what I've done here with this new example.
Anyways, once you've created a new empty WordPress site, it should look like this, right?
Just a generic empty WordPress project.
I have not created a single post page.
I have not customized a single setting.
So the question is, how can we take this new empty WordPress site and import the final fictional university
project into it?
Well, it's actually surprisingly simple.
So go ahead and log in as the admin for your new empty WordPress project.
So in this tab, I'm logged in and we just need to install one plug in.
So over in the sidebar under plug ins list, click, add new up here in the search bar.
Let's search for all in one.
So we're looking for a plug in called All-In-One WP Migration.
You'll know it's the right plug in if the author is by Serv Mask.
So again, all in one WP migration.
Let's go ahead and install this plug in.
OK, once that completes, then we do also need to click the activate button.
OK, now with that plug in activated in the bottom corner of our sidebar menu, that gives us this new
option down here, all in one WP migration when you hover over it, we're interested in import, right?
We want to import the final finished product of this course.
Click on import.
Cool.
Now, in this main column area, we just import a file, so we just need to go download from you to
me in the resources for this lesson.
Just go download my exported file.
So inside you to me, as of today, in the right hand corner, you can see the different chapters and
lessons.
So for this lesson there should be a little resources area.
If you click on that, then there is a file that you can download.
It's named Finished W Press Dot Zip.
So go ahead and start downloading that.
I think it's about 40 megabytes.
Oh, it's actually only about 30 megabytes.
Cool.
Now, before we go back into WordPress and try to import that file, we do need to extract it because
if you look in your downloads folder or wherever you saved the file, you can see that it's a zip file.
And the WordPress plugin we're using does not understand zip files.
So you should be able to either double click on it on Mac or on Windows just right.
Click on it and choose extract.
OK, but once you extract the zip file, you should now have a file just named finished dot w press.
So this is what we can go import in WordPress.
So from the import screen on that new plugin, just click this import from Chew's file.
In your downloads folder, choose that finished press file.
OK, WordPress is just letting you know this is going to completely change this copy of WordPress,
so it's going to erase everything in this current installation and use all of the new imported data.
So do not do this on a website you care about, only do this within a new empty WordPress or a WordPress
installation that you're OK with it turning into a totally different site.
Also, do not import this on a live public production ready website, only do this in a local dev environment.
The reason I say that is because the administrator account on this new installation, their user name
is admin and their password is admin.
Also, there's a guest account where the username is guest and the password is guest.
So those are not very secure usernames and passwords.
But when we're working locally, that's OK.
Anyways, let's go ahead and click proceed.
So this is just going to take a few seconds or maybe a moment or two.
It's already done.
So you can just click finish now to really make sure that everything worked properly.
We do want to maybe go update our permalink structure.
So down in the settings of WordPress, click into Permalink.
It is going to make you login again.
So I was already logged into my old empty WordPress site, but now that plug in has converted this into
the finished product.
Right?
So it's using the database of that finished site.
So now that you imported my backup file, you need to use the username and password that I chose.
So the username is admin and the password is also admin.
So a Mianne go ahead and log in.
From this permalink screen, just go ahead and scroll down to the bottom click save changes, this will
force WordPress to rebuild the permalink using this new domain of this new site.
OK, and that's it.
So now if I use this link up in the top corner to visit my site.
Cool, so just a moment ago, this was a brand new empty WordPress installation, and now this is the
exact final product that you would end up with at the end of this course.
And it's fully functional, so I can click on my notes up here and create a new note, new example note
right now, this is great.
Create that cool.
There it is.
Now, I will point out the one feature that's not going to work out of the box when we import the site
is our campus page.
So if I click on campuses, the Google map is not going to work.
And that's because you would need to enter your own Google Maps API key for now.
Don't worry about that.
We talk about this topic in detail in the chapter where we actually build the campus map.
Also, maybe I can go into the programs up in the top navigation, click into biology, click on Bachs
a lot, click this heart icon to signal that I like, barks a lot or I can click on it again to remove
my like you get the idea.
So everything is up and running.
Well not everything.
So yes, the website is up and running, but what about our automated workflow that generates our bundled
files.
So at the moment that is not up and running.
So right now let me show you how we can set that up.
So the first step is just to locate the theme folder on our computers hard drive.
So in the local app, I'm working on this new example project.
So if I right.
Click on that project, I can choose reveal in Finder on Windows there should be an option of show an
explorer or something similar.
OK, now that's going to show you where that project folder lives on your computer.
So let's just click into that folder.
And then let's click into the app folder, then click into public.
OK, now these are all the WordPress files, we're interested in this folder of WP dash content inside
that we're interested in the folder named Theme's.
OK, and now inside here, we're interested in a fictional university theme, so I want you to open
this folder up in LVS code.
OK, now this folder already contains all of the files that will power our automation, but we do need
to actually install all of the NPM packages.
So to do that, just open up your command line.
LVS code makes this easy because the command line is already pointing towards this exact folder.
So now we just need to say NPM install.
That's it.
So go ahead and type in this command with me.
Let's press enter.
OK, once that finishes, now we just run the following command, npm, run, start, go ahead and press
enter.
OK, and now with that task up and running and watching us, let's test it out.
So let's go into our Sarsae folder and then into our main index JS file and maybe down at the very bottom
of this file just for a quick test to make sure that things are working, let's have an alert pop up
message to just alert parentheses, give it a string of text and say hello, this is a test.
So if we save that, the command line will rebundle up our JavaScript file.
And then on the front end of our website, if we refresh perfect, we see that message from JavaScript.
So we know that our success in JavaScript output is now working correctly.
OK, now moving on towards the very end of this course, we learn about plug in development.
So you and I will code several WordPress plug ins together in the finished product.
Working example of all of those plug ins are included in this version of the bundled or imported site.
So if I go to my blog and click on this most recent blog post, you can see this area towards the top.
This is being generated from a plug in that you and I will create together if we scroll down a little
bit further.
You can see it's filtering the word ipsum again.
That's a plug in that we're going to create if we scroll down a little bit further here, we see this
multiple choice plug in.
So if I get the question wrong on purpose, we see sorry, try again.
But if I get it correct, cool.
We also see another block type plug in that we're going to create together.
Featured Professor and then finally up in the address bar at the end of your domain.
So yours will be something different than mine.
But at the end of it, if you visit pet dash adoption, well, we have a plug in development chapter
where we learn a little bit about working with a custom database table.
So this is an example where we have 100000 pet records and we learn how to handle that efficiently instead
of relying solely on the WordPress post types.
Anyways, I'm getting sidetracked.
Now, the entire point of this video is just to let you know that this imported or bundled version of
the site has everything you need.
It has our main fictional university theme, as well as all of the plug ins that will create together.
OK, that's going to bring this video to a close.
Don't forget, in addition to the admin account that has a password of admin, there's also a guest
account with the username and password, both being guessed.
And that would allow you to test out the Minot's feature and the ability of liking a professor with
an example, guest or student account.
I hope this video helps someone out there.
And now let's get back to actually building this site together step by step.